# JavaFX Encryption Application

## Requirements
In order to use this application you need to have **.jar** files. These files are from [this website](https://gluonhq.com/products/javafx/). After obtaining these .jar files, you will just need this project, java, and scenebuilder. Scenebuilder is what JavaFX uses to generate the graphics.

## Usage and explanation of each cipher method
This program is used to encrypt messages using 4 different encryption methods. These 4 methods being **Alphabet, Caesar, Rail Fence, and Vigenere**. The **Alphabet cipher** is an encryption method that I came up with on my own. It uses the ASCII Table from [this website](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~pattis/15-1XX/common/handouts/ascii.html). Basically what it is doing is just taking the letters from the word that is input into the program and transfering it to the number on the ASCII Table. The **Caesar cipher** method is an encryption method the has been known for a while. What it does is take each letter of the word given and shift each letter as many times as the key. The **Rail Fence** cipher method is also another cipher method that can be found on the internet. What the rail fence cipher program does is take the word given and puts it into a triangle with the depth of the key. After doing that it groups the letters of each line and merges the groups. For example is the word is **discover** and the key is **3**. You should get d, o, i, c, v, r, s, e. Finally, we have Vigenere cipher and what it does it take a word and a keyword. Then using [this chart](https://www.google.com/search?q=vigenere+cipher+chart&sxsrf=ALiCzsZebzVLNxeQg0k2NT4UmoMVCwOBgQ:1658788333191&tbm=isch&source=iu&ictx=1&vet=1&fir=Y0GuB58Ax0aUAM%252CFW-soRwtxbBhUM%252C_%253B_I8t20wPw6lf8M%252C7bhcPd8853GIyM%252C_%253BOULPke51QE1Z6M%252CFW-soRwtxbBhUM%252C_%253Bf_VLksUniLt4-M%252CeFL4Qyf8XV37sM%252C_%253Bfbig-qY47aeX3M%252CR99kdl5Mp-DbBM%252C_%253B1lys2WhMCMQbDM%252CzPO0Se4iJLWzLM%252C_%253BM36lRqnJm36ljM%252CGhS0svHnsU3vDM%252C_%253BOLBuiA2aMKVqBM%252CFW-soRwtxbBhUM%252C_%253B9qBTmtHkIz9W4M%252C7bhcPd8853GIyM%252C_%253BGtx1kJMw8UIMPM%252C7dYFVvR0qYm0fM%252C_%253BmgzQusQXedn2eM%252CulQbpDHAIZiwqM%252C_%253BEsXoa7d4J_RrIM%252C3ZEH7EKTc2HqjM%252C_%253Bi85GiAJKx0wJQM%252CAGpJnFyyL787-M%252C_%253BZbxC99e3xY80cM%252CulQbpDHAIZiwqM%252C_&usg=AI4_-kStmQ4oqrp5heENF_rOgx3xex9NTA&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjdwe2KjJX5AhUOj4kEHd2jDycQ9QF6BAgDEAE#imgrc=Y0GuB58Ax0aUAM) it returns with the given letter inside the chart.

## How it Works
When entering the application you can find four buttons and two boxes. Each button is for each of the types of encryption methods. The top box is for the keyword, and the small box in the middle is for the key. The box at the bottom is the output which will print out the word after being encrypted. If the key is not valid meaning that it is a number when it is supposed to be a letter or the other way around, then there will be an error pop up screen notifying you that your key is invalid. 

#I Hope that you enjoy the application